# sql-server-gen

The goal of this package is to generate arbitrary SQL Server databases (in the form of create statements). The SQL generated by this code should always be valid and run without errors (but warnings are acceptable).

Currently supported (at various degrees of completion) are:
* Tables (including unique, primary key constraints and index options)
* Row level security (with a fixed TVF for security).
* Views (currently only very basic support)
* Triggers (currently only triggers from tables / views)
* Sequences
* Procedures
* Functions
* Queues
* Certificates
* Users
* Roles
* Logins
* Full text catalogs
* Full text stoplists
* Credentials
* Message types
* Contracts
* Services
* Broker Priorties
* Partition Functions

Contributers more than welcome (especially if you know enough Haskell to help me simplify the code!). See Contributing.md for more information!

# Work in progress

The `Database.SqlServer.Alter` modules contain the beginnings of support for `ALTER` statements. An example of use from the REPL (`--` indicates comments not to be entered).

    -- Generate a list of tables
    x <- sample' (arbitrary :: Gen Table)

    -- Let's name the last table as t
    let t = last x

    -- Generate some changes for the data t
    y <- sample' (Database.SqlServer.Alter.Table.generateChanges t)
    
    -- View the data by just inspecting y
    y

    -- Write the alter statements out to a file
    writeFile "AlterTable.sql" $ asScript y

The goal of this work is to allow you to build an arbitrary database and then an infinite sequence of ALTER statements to permute the database.

# Build instructions

Download the Haskell platform (GHC 7.10.2 version available from https://www.haskell.org/platform/). Clone this project and open up a command prompt in the root directory of the cloned project. Running the following series of commands ought to get you to a REPL with everything working.

    cabal update
    cabal sandbox init
    cabal install --dependencies-only
    cabal repl

One you've got a REPL you can now generate different types.

    x <- sample' (arbitrary :: Gen Database)

If you wanted to save this into a file see examples further down.

A `Database` is the top level container, generating a uniquely named database with random amounts of entities. To see the currently supported object types you can do

    > :i Entity
    *snip*
    instance Entity PartitionFunction
      -- Defined at src\Database\SqlServer\Definition\PartitionFunction.hs:66:10
    instance Entity BrokerPriority
      -- Defined at src\Database\SqlServer\Definition\BrokerPriority.hs:58:10
    instance Entity MessageType
      -- Defined at src\Database\SqlServer\Definition\MessageType.hs:47:10
    instance Entity Credential
      -- Defined at src\Database\SqlServer\Definition\Credential.hs:46:10
    instance Entity Function
      -- Defined at src\Database\SqlServer\Definition\Function.hs:100:10

If you want more control then you can use `generateEntity` to generate single files.

    > generateEntity (defaultGenerateOptions 10 22) :: User

If you want to generate an infinite list of tables for your own nefarious purposes then you can use `generateEntities`

    > let tables = generateEntities (defaultGenerateOptions 1 10) :: [Table]
    > let first10 = take 10 tables
    > writeFile "myFilename" $ asScript first10


# Usage

There's a command line interface you can use too, which will generate arbitrary database definitions. You might use this to build automated performance tests or soak tests. Run the following from the command line:

    cabal build cli
    cd dist/build/cli
    ./cli --help    

Should produce the documentation.  
